tests/README.md, before:

# HOW TO RUN THESE TESTS
----------------------

    Currently the tests folder in the HaploQA project includes only tests that can be run using the python
    unittest tool.

    You will run these tests from the project src directory (so that tests is a subdirectory).

    Before you can run these tests, you'll need to put the 'src' directory into your python path:
* * *

    export PYTHONPATH=src/

    If testing locally make sure and set your remote address to 127.0.0.1 instead of the default of None.
    (see the _set_session() method of test_haploqa.py for where to do this)

## Syntax for running tests
______________________

### To run one test file (all classes in the file)

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa

### Run in verbose mode *(recommended,  as this shows the test name being run and its relevant comments):*

    python -m unittest -v tests.test_haploqa

### To run one test class

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa.TestHaploQA

### To run one test

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa.TestHaploQA.test_home_page

Commit message:

Adds some unit tests for zip file extraction as well as supporting testing files needed for the tests. These files are all very small. Updates the testing README.md to include that mongod must be running for tests to run properly.

tests/README.md, after:

# HOW TO RUN THESE TESTS
----------------------

    Currently the tests folder in the HaploQA project includes only tests that can be run using the python
    unittest tool.

    You will run these tests from the project root directory (so that tests/ and src/ are subdirectories).

    Before you can run these tests, you'll need to put the 'src' directory into your python path:
* * *

    export PYTHONPATH=src/

    If testing locally make sure and set your remote address to 127.0.0.1 instead of the default of None.
    (see the _set_session() method of test_haploqa.py for where to do this) and that you have MongoDB running as well.

## Syntax for running tests
______________________

### To run one test file (all classes in the file)

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa

### Run in verbose mode *(recommended, as this shows the test name being run and its relevant comments)*

    python -m unittest -v tests.test_haploqa

### To run one test class

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa.TestHaploQA

### To run one test

    python -m unittest tests.test_haploqa.TestHaploQA.test_home_page
